Manual for rtcm3torinex

The program rtcm3torinex is an real-time converter from NTRIP streamed RTCM3
data into the RINEX format. The generated RINEX is somewhat limited due to
the streaming character of the conversion:
 - Header records can only represent data, which is known after receiving the
   very first epoch. Data rate, position, number of observations and any such
   additional fields cannot be provided.
 - The number of observables cannot change during the program runtime. Only
   the observables, which exist in the first epoch are outputted. If there
   are new observables later on, these are ignored.
 - Only known data types are interpreted. This means only GPS data at the
   moment. Send me new RTCM3 data files and data support can be improved.
   See contact address at the end of this document.
 - If the ambiguity field in the RTCM3 data is not set, the output will be no
   valid RINEX. All values will be stored modulo 299792.458. A COMMENT line
   will tell you, when this happens. It would be necessary to approximately
   calculate the range to fix the ambiguity (needing ephemeris/alamanac and
   easy positioning algorithm).

Usage: rtcm3torinex -s server -u user ...
 -d --data       the requested data set
 -f --headerfile file for RINEX header information
 -s --server     the server name or address
 -p --password   the login password
 -r --port       the server port number (default 80)
 -u --user       the user name

The fields --user and --password are used to specify the access data for the
NTRIP server. The arguments --server and --port are used to specify the NTRIP
server itself (defaults to "www.euref-ip.net" port 80). The Argument --data
must be used to specify the RTCM3 input data stream. If it is not given, you
will be shown the source table of the selected NTRIP caster.

Additionally the argument --headerfile can be used to provide additional header
information. The file must contain normal RINEX observation file header lines.
The given lines overwrite the automatically generated lines. Overwriting the
lines "# / TYPES OF OBSERV" and "TIME OF FIRST OBS" usually is a bad idea and
you will get warned if you do so. The line "END OF HEADER" is ignored.
Unknown lines or COMMENT lines will be appended before the "END OF HEADER".

NOTE: The tool does not check the input lines for validity. So be sure to
use correct RINEX specifiers as well as correct alignment.

To stop RINEX output send the program a killing signal. Following signal
sources are supported:

signal    number  usual source of the signal
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
SIGINT       2    pressing CTRL+C in the shell running the tool
SIGQUIT      3    pressing CTRL-\ or sending QUIT signal
SIGTERM     15    called kill <num> with the process number of rtcm3torinex
SIGPIPE     13    the output or input of rtcm3torinex has been closed

The programm will be terminated after the current epoch has been finished.
You will not get corrupted RINEX files.

Contact me with your comments, suggestions, improvements, patches, ...

Dirk Stöcker
EuroNav Service GmbH
http://www.euronav.de/
soft@dstoecker.de
2006-01-12
